[Music]
okay you spend hours checking in and
going through security you squeeze into
your Barbie size seat the in-flight meal
is practically inedible and all you can
think is why can't air travel be like it
used to wait
was the past really better than the
present well for one they had beds sure
you can recline the seat a little but
you still have to try to fall asleep
while sitting back in the 1940s the
Boeing Strato
that not only reclined but also turned
into a bed now you have to pay for
business or first class to get that
luxury old school gets one point noisy
propellers before they started using jet
engines in the 50s and 60s commercial
planes used propellers that made them
extremely loud more susceptible to
turbulence since they flew lower and
more vulnerable to bad weather for the
same reason we still have turbo props
today but they're not passenger
airliners so this point goes to the
quiet safe planes of today by the way
one of the facts on my list is actually
fake see if you can sniff out the
imposter and let me know your guest down
in the comments no peeking at the answer
at the end of the video long trips not
vast distances and long-haul flights I'm
talking speed and of course the planes
of yesteryear were way slower than
today's aircraft as aviation
technologies developed over the decades
we eventually learned how to overcome
the sound barrier that is we can now fly
faster than the speed of sound but
currently we can't in a commercial
passenger jet
five hundred fifty miles per hour is
still nothing to sneeze at boom
got to appreciate what we have today
only rich people when passenger flight
service was first introduced it was a
privilege only for the wealthy there
were classes in the cabin with their
different levels of comfort all
passengers were first class because air
travel was so expensive if you wanted to
fly from Chicago to Phoenix and back in
the late 50s
you'd have to shell out what would be
like $1,200 today evening where that
price point could explain why all
passengers were dressed like they were
at the theater that was just the
atmosphere of an aircraft cabin some 80
years ago being on board was a big deal
and travelers tried to look their best
the plane wasn't just a vehicle it was a
way to show off your status hmm fancy
clothes of the past or comfy cabin where
of today I'll let you decide who gets
this point down in the comments pianos
so fitting of the high priced tickets
and the fancy get-ups some planes had a
real piano on board so you can enjoy
some live music while you fly I'll take
my in-flight movie over a big bulky
piano any day ok fine I'll give a point
for the sophistication full course meals
the food offered on an airplane was like
in a real restaurant the dishes were
served on fine china
you got silverware instead of flimsy
disposable utensils and beverages were
poured into glassware not those little
plastic or cardboard cups you could be
served roast beef prime rib and lobster
definitely beats chicken or fish all
planes get one point questionable
baggage storage just a net shelf that
held your bag over your head
and remember flights were rockier back
then it seems like an accident waiting
to happen
good thing we have those sturdy
closeable carry-on bins today they came
around in the 70s in case you were
wondering
and they've earned modern planes one
more point all that precious space seats
that can fit your hips leg and elbow
room that
existed for this fact alone the old days
of aviation should win this contest but
let's be fair as air travel became more
affordable in common passenger numbers
went up and Airlines had to adjust seats
got smaller and we had to get more
personal with our neighbors that's your
elbow in my rib and nice to meet you by
the way square windows when you look at
the windows on today's planes you'll
notice they don't have corners this
round shape is better for aerodynamics
plus corners and windows create
vulnerable spots that can shatter
because of the air pressure difference
granted early planes didn't fly as high
as once today so that difference wasn't
as drastic but still a boxy fuselage and
square windows no point for bad design
curtains if you look at pictures of old
planes
you'll also notice those weird square
windows have curtains on them not the
plastic shade you pull down nowadays but
dainty fabric curtains hanging on a
little rod they look like they were sewn
lovingly by someone's grandma you know
okay probably not but you have to admit
that homey touch it was everywhere in
cabins back in the day the patterned
fabric of the seats the bright curtains
wall decor bouquets of flowers looks
like grandma's living room cabins
nowadays seem so minimalistic and
futuristic in comparison it feels like
you're going into space where everything
but a fancy look is important it's
getting harder to choose which is better
let's give both a point powder rooms
good luck freshening up in a present day
airplane bathroom I'll just put my face
cream on right here and oh it fell on
the dirty floor great passenger jets in
the 50s had ladies powder rooms with a
vanity table and a place to sit while
you touch up before landing you know who
wins this round identical crew members
let's be honest flight attendants back
in the day kind of looked like clowns
and that's not a coincidence there were
strict rules when it came to hiring
stewardesses or air hostess
as they were called they had a fit of
very specific mole and for that no point
for the oldie moldy ways letters and
postcards the fact that traveling by air
was a rare thing to happen made people
want to describe this experience to
their loved ones so writing about your
impressions was another way to spend
countless hours during your flight and
don't worry if you forgot your postcard
a crew member will provide you with one
quick check-in and boredom when air
travel was a privilege for the few you
could show up just 30 minutes before
your flight and make it to your plane
with no worries tickets were collected
during the flight like on trains if you
didn't get your ticket ahead of time you
could just pay on board I wonder what
they did to those who couldn't pay have
them hop off well the quick convenience
is surely a point to old aircraft
baggage returners before the invention
of baggage carousels people waited for
the staff to put all their belongings on
the counter and it took hours to get
everyone all their bags yeah let's award
baggage carousels they're much deserved
point all right let's find out which of
these facts is a fake it was drum roll
please the third fact about plane speed
actually planes today cruise about 30
miles per hour slower than in the past
not a huge difference but still a fact
the reason for this is quite simple
running slower aircraft is cheaper than
super fast one's going faster than the
speed of sound burns more fuel it also
breaks your plane's down quicker which
means more maintenance costs hence why
supersonic Concorde passenger flights
were stopped oh yeah who won this
competition anyways you can tally up the
points and let me know down below
and if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with you know a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life
you